Okay.
Natalie, what time is it?
>> It's 8:36,
I want to say, in the morning, to be
clear.
We're going to see Obsession,
um,
which is going to be scary.
>> So, you're somebody who's reported on
like cartels.
>> Yes, yes.
>> Where you at on nervousness?
>> I'm I'm terrified. This is different.
From The New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
For years, Hollywood's been trying to
solve an existential problem. How to get
young people to go to the movies.
And then, this summer, it happened at an
unthinkable scale, thanks to two
low-budget horror films made by
20-something directors, which drove Gen
Z to the theaters in such high numbers
that I had to go to the movies to find
out what was behind it.
>> I'm going to get so much food. I'm going
to stress eat [music] everything in this
theater.
>> Today, my colleague Kyle Buchanan
explains what younger audiences saw in
these films, and how they've energized
an entire industry.
>> [music]
>> It's Tuesday, June 16th.
I don't know I literally don't know why
I agreed to do this. We should have
gotten Michael to do this.
>> Hello.
>> Kyle, I'm really excited to have this
conversation in part because I need
therapy after watching both of these
movies.
We are here because something crazy is
happening at the box office right now,
and this is your world, this is your
beat. Tell me what is going on.
>> Something crazy is happening, and it's
still happening. We have two movies,
Obsession and Backrooms, that are such
runaway successes that they basically
shocked the industry. They were made for
almost no money by young people who got
their start on YouTube way, way, way
outside the Hollywood studio system, and
now here they are beating Hollywood at
their own game.
>> And when we say runaway hits, what do
you mean by that?
>> What I mean by that is you have the film
Obsession, which is defying gravity at
the box office from week to week in ways
that have never been done before, and
then you also have Backrooms, which
became the highest-grossing movie ever
released by the studio A24 in the space
of just 10 days. This is the studio that
released films like Everything
Everywhere All at Once and Marty
Supreme, and Backrooms lapped them like
it was nothing.
But it's not just that these films are
making money, it's also who's going to
see them. These are huge, huge hits with
Gen Z. And talking to people in
Hollywood, executives, producers,
directors, all sorts of people over the
last several years, the number one
anxiety I keep hearing is how do we get
young people to care about the movies?
>> Right. And for years now it's become
almost a cliché, I think, to hear that
moviegoing is dead, that young people
just don't go to the theaters. This
seems to disprove that.
>> It absolutely does. And you know, these
films are on track to make hundreds of
millions of dollars. Like to put that
into perspective, this is all happening
at the same time as the first Star Wars
film in 7 years, The Mandalorian and
Grogu is out in theaters, and these two
movies are making basically the exact
same amount of money. They cost
virtually nothing compared to Star Wars,
obviously. And I think what they're
proving is young audiences don't want
their parents' franchise hand-me-downs.
They want a sense of investment in these
movies, and if you can make it feel like
an event to them, they absolutely will
go.
>> Okay. So, with that as our premise, help
me understand how and why this is
happening. How young people are
connecting with both of these films. And
we should both acknowledge we are not
Gen Z. I'm a millennial. I'm just living
in their world. And so I do need to
understand this. Let's start with the
first one to come out, Obsession. Just
lay out what this movie is about.
>> So this is a horror movie, but it kind
of almost starts like a date movie.
>> Do you ever actually like flirted with
Nikki?
>> It's about a young man in his 20s. He
has a crush on his best female friend,
and he can't quite tell if that crush is
reciprocated.
>> Nikki, wait. I was going [music] to ask
you
um
>> What?
>> Uh
I I lost my train of thought.
>> And instead of simply summoning the
courage to find out, he makes a wish on
a toy that he finds in a novelty store.
And that wish is that his friend will be
as obsessed with him as he is with her.
>> I wish Nikki Freeman loved me more than
anyone in the entire world.
>> And unfortunately, he gets that wish
times a million.
>> I love you so so so so so much.
>> Because she becomes so obsessed with him
that her fervor is unnerving.
>> we were having a nice day.
>> We we are we are
>> And anybody who threatens to get in the
way of what she perceives to be their
love is in real danger.
>> I love you. I love you, MAX. I LOVE YOU.
>> [screaming]
[music]
>> AND WE'RE GOING TO GET TO WHY THOSE
themes resonate, but I'd imagine a big
part of why this film has connected with
young audiences is that the guy who made
it, who wrote it and directed it, is
himself in his 20s.
>> Exactly, yeah. Curry Barker, the writer
and director, he's just 26. So it makes
sense that he's making a film that
speaks directly to young audiences. And
he got to start on YouTube where that
generation lives. He made this film
Obsession independently for just
$750,000
and I'm telling you that to put its
massive success into some perspective
because at this point after this last
weekend, it just crossed 265 million at
the global box office, which is more
than 300 times that original budget.
Wow.
>> And young audiences just keep going and
going to it.
>> Okay, I want to understand why that is
without spoiling the movie, which I
don't like horror movies generally, but
I found it both terrifying and extremely
compelling. What has made Gen Z come out
in these numbers? What makes it an event
for them?
>> That is the big question that everybody
in Hollywood is asking, why? And it
isn't just that the movie is effective
as a horror film, though it is. I think
a lot of it has to do with the fact that
it is grappling with, you know, Gen Z
mores, the things that this younger
generation is obsessed with, ideas of
consent and fear about relationships,
anxiety over whether people like you or
not. It doesn't do that in a didactic
way. That's all just underneath the
surface and it means that you can go see
this film with your friends or talk
about it with them on social media and
people are going to have different
interpretations. I think that the film
walks a really smart tightrope and
there's things that you want to dig into
after you've seen it a first or even a
second or third time.
>> Right, it plays on this idea that dating
and relationships and sex can be scary,
you know, anxiety provoking at a very
deep level. Talk about how this film is
being consumed because there is such a
high demand to see it in the theater.
>> Well, I think that's part of the reason
why even in this nobody knows anything
era of Hollywood movie making, horror
still continues to do well, especially
with young audiences. There really isn't
anything like that feeling of being with
an audience, feeling them get scared,
and feeling them react. However, the
audience for Gen Z is not simply who's
in the theater with them, it's who's
online with them.
>> Come with me and my friend Karen to
watch Obsession.
>> [music]
>> I know nothing about this movie besides
it's scary and that it's apparently
good.
>> Cuz everyone's giving mixed reviews, so
come see it with us and we're going to
give you our opinions at the end.
>> We've seen a lot of people who are
reacting
>> This is me and my mom before watching
Obsession. [music] We are
>> There's the before I saw Obsession,
after I saw Obsession meme.
>> Okay, what did you think?
>> There are people in the audience. This
isn't thing something I love.
>> Oh!
Oh!
>> But there are people in the audience who
will film their own reactions while in
the audience. They'll be like, "Bro!"
>> Yo! Bro, it genuinely got too scary,
bro. I can't.
>> No, that did not just happen, bro. You
know
>> You do a good bro, Kyle.
>> I know. Like, honestly kind of scares me
how easily I slipped into that. But you
know,
uh there's new ways of feeling like you
have to be part of that sort of thing,
and I think that's why Obsession is
continuing to defy box office gravity
because nobody wants to feel left out of
this conversation.
>> [music]
>> This is a movie that really rewards
being seen multiple times because
there's additional layers to dig into.
It kind of reminds me of Have you ever
heard of the term corn plating?
>> I have not. Introduce me to that term,
Kyle.
>> [laughter]
>> So, this is a term that was invented by
the animated film Encanto, oddly enough,
and it refers to that point where you're
so far into the discourse of a movie
that people can't stop talking about
that basically no detail becomes too
small for the internet to dig into. And
they call it corn plating because there
was this meme of somebody posting the
image of a secondary character from
Encanto
and saying, "I never realized that she
was holding a plate of corn in this
scene."
>> Okay.
>> That's when you know you're really
desperate for more details to dig into
when you're getting down to that plate
of corn.
>> And you're saying this happened in this
case with this movie? How did people Is
it a verb? Corn plate this movie?
>> Oh, yeah. We're definitely now weeks
into release. We're at the corn plating
stage.
>> Okay.
>> Bear killed his cat in hopes to gain
sympathy from Nikki because he is a
covert narcissist. Let me explain.
>> There are people who are suggesting that
maybe our lead character is possessed by
the spirit of his dead cat.
>> So, I don't think something jumps into
Nikki's body. I think she's split into
two.
>> Just like this.
>> There are people that are analyzing the
strange possessed movements of our
female lead.
>> And immediately as a writer, I was like,
"No, absolutely not." Like they are
technically not the same thing. They are
not the same genre because romance as a
genre
>> They're really going deep on the themes
and motifs of the movie like it's hour
three of a creative writing class and
the students are getting punchy.
And even though some of these might
strike you as reaches, I think they're
emblematic of a discussion that people
love to have on social media. They want
to dig into the lore of a movie. And if
they can put forth a compelling enough
through line in a YouTube video, they
themselves might be able to draft off
the success of the film.
>> So, basically what you're saying is that
the themes in this movie and the way
that it was consumed created so much
discourse around the film itself that it
immediately generated this very
particular Gen Z cultural moment and
therefore drove ticket sales.
>> It did and this is a Gen Z cultural
moment at the box office, the likes of
which we've never seen before.
And you could be forgiven for thinking
we might not see it again because it's
so unique.
And yet, 2 weeks later, [music]
lightning struck again.
Another Gen Z movie defied box office
records. [music]
>> We'll be right back.
Okay, Kyle, let's talk about the second
Gen Z hit, Backrooms. I also saw it, and
it also scared me a lot.
What do we need to know about it?
>> Obsession might have crept up on the box
office, but Backrooms took off like a
rocket. It made $80 million its first
weekend. And again, it's huge with young
people. Like, virtually the entire
opening weekend audience was under 35.
>> [music]
>> I found something.
>> It's another horror movie, and it's
about people who get trapped in this
sort of liminal space universe.
>> They found a place.
>> These hallways that go on forever and
are governed by some sort of unknowable
dream logic.
>> I've been here every night since I found
the place, and I still barely scratch
the surface.
I'll just take it slow.
>> You'll see strange things, sometimes
strange figures, but also just kind of
like sickly yellow wallpaper vibes. It
has this feeling of walking to the break
room in a terrible job and never, ever
getting there.
>> Oh my god.
Pull me up. PULL ME UP. PULL ME UP. WHAT
DO YOU SEE?
>> AND IT MAKES sense that it's connecting
with young people cuz it was made by
one. It was made by a 20-year-old
director.
>> 20 years old is just bananas. So young.
>> Yes, the youngest director by far to
ever top the box office. And the
craziest part is he was actually only 17
when he was signed by A24 to make this
movie.
>> It's just hard to actually believe. You
spent a lot of time with him, Kyle. Just
tell us his story.
>> Uh Munch inside actually like to sit
down this wee menu music. I think it's
going to interfere with the recording.
So
Maybe we find a different person to walk
a little way. Okay, great.
>> [music]
>> Yeah, his name is Kane Parsons. And of
course before I met him, I wondered who
could this guy possibly be? You know,
you you might imagine some young
cinephile who's eager to get into the
Criterion closet and give you his
Letterboxd top four. And what I found is
someone quite different from that.
>> I would love to work in games like at
some point. I don't know when. Like it's
probably not right.
>> This is somebody who honestly, as he'll
tell you, didn't watch a lot of films
growing up. His approach is much more
motivated by video games like Portal and
Half-Life.
>> The point is Parsons does not have the
resume of your typical filmmaker.
>> No, he very much doesn't. But I found
him to be incredibly unpretentious, very
thoughtful, very solid feeling. And I
could absolutely see why people would be
willing to follow this young man into
battle. In a lot of ways, he's
self-taught.
>> 2020 hit, I you know, during the
pandemic, during like online classes, I
was able to
I was like have my screen split and be
just playing around with them.
>> You know, he came up on YouTube. He was
born four months after YouTube was
invented. I don't mean to scare you by
saying that. It scared me when I learned
it. But, you know, he taught himself how
to do all of this. His film school was
essentially YouTube tutorials. His
feedback from fellow students was more
like comments on YouTube and comments on
Discord. And you can quibble with
whether that's an acceptable substitute
for an actual film school, but you can't
beat the free tuition.
>> And then so I, you know, started trying
to figure out how to do 3D in After
Effects and Blender wasn't quite on my
radar at the time.
>> So, he taught himself how to use
Blender, which is a free visual effects
software.
And he made his original short,
Backrooms Found Footage, which ended up
getting, I think it's now at 80 million
views.
>> It sounds like this guy is just a total
self-starter. I mean, he literally
teaches himself on YouTube.
Is that why the thing he makes goes so
incredibly viral?
>> That's part of it, but also he was
basing this web series on something that
had already gone viral. It's called a
creepypasta, basically a scary meme that
the internet [snorts] finds and builds
upon, sort of like
a collective creative writing project,
or maybe like the online version of
telling spooky stories around a
campfire. There's an original Backrooms
image that got posted on 4chan of this
decrepit department store. It's got
creepy yellow fluorescent lighting. It
feels run down in that kind of abandoned
mall kind of way.
>> Mhm.
>> And people would write sort of short
stories that were based on this image,
imagining what might be just down the
hallway, if there's something even more
terrifying.
So, what Kane Parsons did is he was
inspired by the lore that had already
been created, but he made his own
offshoot.
>> Hello?
Is someone there?
>> Found footage of a guy being lost in the
Backrooms, but what's really startling
when you watch this is not just how, you
know, smartly made it is, it's the fact
that it was made by one person, that he
did all of these special effects, that
he made this location in this free
software.
These are special effects made by a
teenager that outclass almost everything
that we see on big screens these days.
>> So, Parson's is adapting IP in a sense.
I mean, maybe not in the traditional
sense, but this Backrooms story is
something that Gen Z is already
iterating on and engaging with.
>> Yeah, and he continued to iterate on it
long before he made this film. He made a
few dozen installments of his Backrooms
series for YouTube that has recurring
characters, an eerie corporation that
gets involved, and what really impressed
me and surprised me, to be honest, is
that he was perfectly happy there. You
know, this is somebody who came up on
YouTube as his primary means of
expression, but also the primary thing
he would watch. The idea of making a
movie, you know, though he wasn't
opposed to it, wasn't the be-all end-all
goal. You know, as he told me, he got a
perfectly adequate level
of creative satisfaction and financial
compensation from staying on YouTube.
>> So, why did he decide to make this a
feature film then?
>> Well, at first he didn't want to. He was
extremely skeptical even when he was
getting all of these amazing offers
within weeks of posting his first video
because he'd seen it before.
>> to drive this is is something that I
cared about like supremely with of like,
you know, making sure that it doesn't
get away from
uh
you know, its origins and it doesn't
become like American Horror Story is did
a Backrooms episode and it's everything
>> Did they?
>> Yeah, and it's everything that like it
shouldn't be. Like it fundamentally
fails.
>> Uh-huh.
>> He had seen out of touch Hollywood
producers take something that got big on
the internet and in the big screen
translation lose everything about it
that made it appealing to his
generation.
>> There needs to be a
respect to the material that already
exists and respect to the people online
who are already there for the material
and the understanding that it's
you know, there's an elevated aspect to
it beyond just like turning it into a
slasher haunted house like
uh flick with you know, it's
>> So, he really resisted for a long time.
It took the right arrangement of people
including A24, which is probably the
most youth focused studio there is, but
also Kane had his own idea of how he
wanted to approach this. He didn't want
this to be an adaptation or a remake. He
considers this to be a super-sized
installment of the series that he
already had going on for years. And
that's exactly what he's made and
because of the success of it, I presume
that we're going to see a lot more from
this series going forward.
>> And do you think that what has been so
compelling about this movie is that a
bunch of young people basically are
excited to see something that they
watched on YouTube for a really long
time on the big screen? Is it just that?
>> I think that's a large part of it. I
think he speaks in a visual language
that a lot of young people recognize
from video games, especially
first-person shooters. These really
prolonged takes, that anxiety over what
might be just around the corner of a
very long hallway. But also there's a
lot of other ways that you can parse
this if if you allow me to corn plate a
little bit.
>> Mhm. Please.
>> I think that there is there's a creeping
fear of uh you know, AI simulating us in
ways that that don't actually resemble
what the human mind produces. Parsons
been not shy about his perspective on AI
during this press tour. He said that if
he could stop generative AI with a snap
of his fingers, he would do so. And I
you see that in the backrooms, where
whatever this, you know, little pocket
universe is doing, it just doesn't feel
quite right. It feels like somebody
who's trying to get us and doing us
wrong.
>> Just to step back, Kyle, what should we
make of these two huge successes? I
could see the argument that, you know,
maybe this is just a flash in the pan
and we should not read too much into it,
you know, from an industry perspective.
But is it indicative of some broader
shift in the consumer behavior of Gen Z
when it comes to the movies, when it
comes to the theaters?
>> I think it absolutely is and it's
undeniable. Based on the strength of
these two movies, it proves that young
people do want to go to the movie
theater. You just have to give them a
reason. You have to make it feel like an
event. It might not be an automatic
thing like it was, you know, in in
previous generations, where they'll just
go on a Friday and decide what to see
once they get to the theater. They want
to go see specific movies, but they
absolutely do want to go and they'll go
back once, twice, three times if you
give them something that's worth
discussing.
>> Is the premise there underneath what
you're saying that Hollywood hasn't been
giving them a reason thus far?
>> Hollywood's been giving them
hand-me-downs, you know? Do you want to
wear all the clothes that, you know,
your your dad or mom or even
grandparents gave you?
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah, Star Wars is a franchise that
started in the 1970s. Another film that
we've got out right now, Masters of the
Universe, which is underperforming.
That's based on He-Man toys from the
'80s. If you didn't grow up with those
properties, you might not understand the
fervor with which an older generation
would greet them and you're certainly
not going to rush out to the theater to
see them [snorts] when you could go to
Obsession or Backrooms again, films made
by your generation for your generation.
>> So what is the lesson then for Hollywood
from these two movies? If there is
obviously a huge desire to replicate
this success,
what's the road map that this offers?
>> That's the million-dollar question, and
that is the question that everybody is
asking each other, and they're asking
me. I was at the premiere of Toy Story 5
this past week, you know, a film based
on massive IP, and it's going to be a
big blockbuster. But, at the same time,
that's not what people wanted to talk
about at the after-party. They wanted to
talk about Obsession and Backrooms. I
was just also recently interviewing
Emily Blunt, who stars in Steven
Spielberg's new film Disclosure Day, and
the most animated she got during the
whole interview is when we talked about
Backrooms and Obsession and this
cultural moment. I think it is exciting
to executives, to producers, to talent
to see that young people still want to
carry on this tradition of going to see
movies, especially when they have so
many options available to them. They
have TikTok, they have streaming
services. So, if you can craft a
compelling case, if you can say this is
worth experiencing with your fellow
moviegoers, this is worth actually
leaving your house to go do, I think
young people want to. You know, both
these films were made for under $10
million. Obsession was made for under $1
million.
So, it doesn't cost a lot, and the
dividends can be so great when you hit.
>> So, suddenly, somehow, the future of
Hollywood looks brighter
kind of thanks to YouTube.
>> And truly, who would have thought? But,
let me be clear, you know, this isn't
the end of corporate IP, this isn't the
end of major film franchises. You've got
a Spider-Man movie about to come out.
You've got Toy Story 5. But, still, at
the same time, there's a moment
happening that can't be ignored. It
can't be swept under the rug. Both
Obsessions and Backrooms, they're these
really sharp, provocative visions from
young and talented filmmakers. They
definitely could not have been made by
Hollywood's old guard, and I think
that's the big lesson to draw from here.
Because the enormous, staggering,
record-breaking popularity of these
movies suggests that this is something
these audiences have been waiting for.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Well, Kyle, thank you so much.
>> Thank you for having me, Natalie, and I
hope having to see these two movies
didn't traumatize you too terribly.
>> Not too bad.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We'll be right back.
>> Here's what else you need to know today.
The US and Iran have signed a framework
agreement ending their months-long war,
but neither side published the deal's
full text.
The immediate scope was focused [music]
on ending military attacks and allowing
tankers to begin moving freely through
the Strait of Hormuz, which [music]
President Trump said could happen as
soon as Friday.
But even though Trump said the strait
would open without tolls, [music]
Iran said on Monday that it intended to
charge fees for unspecified services
rendered in the strait. [music]
The net effect could add a new expense
and complications for commercial ships
that need [music] to pass through the
waterway.
>> [music]
>> And
>> Donald Trump isn't just coming after me
because of my mean tweets.
He's coming after me because I'm
considering [music]
running for president.
>> In a video on Monday, California
Governor Gavin Newsom said that federal
agents had been questioning his and his
wife's friends and associates, [music]
describing the inquiry as politically
motivated.
>> They're demanding records. [music]
They're abusing the grand jury process,
digging through years and years [music]
of random documents.
>> The full scope of any investigation
remains unclear, but Newsom's aides
[music] say that it appears to focus on
his wife, Jennifer Siebel Newsom.
>> Someone who has done nothing wrong other
>> [music]
>> than having the temerity to advocate for
what she believes in.
>> A person familiar with the matter told
[music] The Times that multiple federal
investigations were underway related to
the governor, including one looking at
his wife's finances,
>> [music]
>> but said they'd been initiated by
federal law enforcement officials in
California, not by officials [music] in
Washington.
Today's episode [music] was produced by
Alex Stern and Eric Krupke with help
from Mooj Zadie and Ricky Novetsky. It
was edited by Brendan Klinkenberg
[music]
with help from Michael Benoist
and contains music by Rowan Nemi Stow,
Marion Lozano, and Alicia [music] B
Toot. Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Chris
Wood. [music]
>> [music]
>> That's it for The Daily. I'm Natalie
[music] Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.